# Research Topics from arXiv for Query: **sand**

### [Formation of aeolian ripples and sand sorting](http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4284v2)

We present a continuous model capable of demonstrating some salient features
of aeolian sand ripples: the realistic asymmetric ripple shape, coarsening of
ripple field at the nonlinear stage of ripple growth, saturation of ripple
growth for homogeneous sand, typical size segregation of sand and formation of
armoring layers of coarse particles on ripple crests and windward slopes if
sand is inhomogeneous.

### [Where does Titan Sand Come From: Insight from Mechanical Properties of
  Titan Sand Candidates](http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.08056v1)

Extensive equatorial linear dunes exist on Titan, but the origin of the sand,
which appears to be organic, is unknown. We used nanoindentation to study the
mechanical properties of a few Titan sand candidates, several natural sands on
Earth, and common materials used in the Titan Wind Tunnel, to understand the
mobility of Titan sand. We measured the elastic modulus (E), hardness (H), and
fracture toughness (Kc) of these materials. Tholin's elastic modulus
(10.4+/-0.5 GPa) and hardness (0.53+/-0.03 GPa) are both an order of magnitude
smaller than silicate sand, and is also smaller than the mechanically weak
white gypsum sand. With a magnitude smaller fracture toughness
(Kc=0.036+/-0.007 MPa-m^(1/2)), tholin is also much more brittle than silicate
sand. This indicates that Titan sand should be derived close to the equatorial
regions where the current dunes are located, because tholin is too soft and
brittle to be transported for long distances.

### [Single particle triboelectrification of Titan sand analogs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.12923v1)

Sand electrification is important for aeolian sediment transportation on
terrestrial bodies with silicate sand as the main sediment composition.
However, it has not been thoroughly studied for icy bodies such as Titan with
organic sand as the main dune-forming material. We used the colloidal probe
atomic force microscopy (AFM) technique to study triboelectric charging
processes using Titan and Earth sand analogs. We found that it is easy to
generate triboelectric charges between naphthalene (a simple aromatic
hydrocarbon), polystyrene (an aromatic hydrocarbon polymer), and borosilicate
glass (Earth silicate sand analog). Strong electrostatic forces can be measured
after contact and/or tribocharging. In contrast, tholin, a complex organic
material, does not generate any detectable electrostatic forces with contact or
tribocharging within the detection limit of the instrument. If Titan sand
behaves more like tholin, this indicates that the tribocharging capacity of
Titan sand is much weaker than Earth silicate sand and much less than
previously measured by Mendez-Harper et al., (2017), where only simple organics
were used for Titan sand analogs. Thus, triboelectrification may not contribute
to increasing interparticle forces between sand particles on Titan as much as
on Earth. Interparticle forces generated by other electrostatic processes or
other interparticle forces such as van der Waals and capillary cohesion forces
could be the dominant interparticle forces that govern Titan sand formation and
sediment transportation on the surface. Titan sand is also unlikely to produce
large electrical discharge through tribocharging to affect future missions to
Titan's surface.

### [Wet Sand flows better than dry sand](http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2972v1)

We investigated the yield stress and the apparent viscosity of sand with and
without small amounts of liquid. By pushing the sand through a tube with an
enforced Poiseuille like profile we minimize the effect of avalanches and shear
localization. We find that the system starts to flow when a critical shear of
the order of one particle diameter is exceeded. In contrast to common believe,
we observe that the resistance against the flow of wet sand is much smaller
than that of dry sand. For the dissipative flow we propose a non-equilibrium
state equation for granular fluids.

### [Attack Trees with Sequential Conjunction](http://arxiv.org/abs/1503.02261v1)

We provide the first formal foundation of SAND attack trees which are a
popular extension of the well-known attack trees. The SAND attack tree
formalism increases the expressivity of attack trees by introducing the
sequential conjunctive operator SAND. This operator enables the modeling of
ordered events.
  We give a semantics to SAND attack trees by interpreting them as sets of
series-parallel graphs and propose a complete axiomatization of this semantics.
We define normal forms for SAND attack trees and a term rewriting system which
allows identification of semantically equivalent trees. Finally, we formalize
how to quantitatively analyze SAND attack trees using attributes.
