# Research Topics from arXiv for Query: **Titan sand**

### [Single particle triboelectrification of Titan sand analogs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.12923v1)

Sand electrification is important for aeolian sediment transportation on
terrestrial bodies with silicate sand as the main sediment composition.
However, it has not been thoroughly studied for icy bodies such as Titan with
organic sand as the main dune-forming material. We used the colloidal probe
atomic force microscopy (AFM) technique to study triboelectric charging
processes using Titan and Earth sand analogs. We found that it is easy to
generate triboelectric charges between naphthalene (a simple aromatic
hydrocarbon), polystyrene (an aromatic hydrocarbon polymer), and borosilicate
glass (Earth silicate sand analog). Strong electrostatic forces can be measured
after contact and/or tribocharging. In contrast, tholin, a complex organic
material, does not generate any detectable electrostatic forces with contact or
tribocharging within the detection limit of the instrument. If Titan sand
behaves more like tholin, this indicates that the tribocharging capacity of
Titan sand is much weaker than Earth silicate sand and much less than
previously measured by Mendez-Harper et al., (2017), where only simple organics
were used for Titan sand analogs. Thus, triboelectrification may not contribute
to increasing interparticle forces between sand particles on Titan as much as
on Earth. Interparticle forces generated by other electrostatic processes or
other interparticle forces such as van der Waals and capillary cohesion forces
could be the dominant interparticle forces that govern Titan sand formation and
sediment transportation on the surface. Titan sand is also unlikely to produce
large electrical discharge through tribocharging to affect future missions to
Titan's surface.

### [Where does Titan Sand Come From: Insight from Mechanical Properties of
  Titan Sand Candidates](http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.08056v1)

Extensive equatorial linear dunes exist on Titan, but the origin of the sand,
which appears to be organic, is unknown. We used nanoindentation to study the
mechanical properties of a few Titan sand candidates, several natural sands on
Earth, and common materials used in the Titan Wind Tunnel, to understand the
mobility of Titan sand. We measured the elastic modulus (E), hardness (H), and
fracture toughness (Kc) of these materials. Tholin's elastic modulus
(10.4+/-0.5 GPa) and hardness (0.53+/-0.03 GPa) are both an order of magnitude
smaller than silicate sand, and is also smaller than the mechanically weak
white gypsum sand. With a magnitude smaller fracture toughness
(Kc=0.036+/-0.007 MPa-m^(1/2)), tholin is also much more brittle than silicate
sand. This indicates that Titan sand should be derived close to the equatorial
regions where the current dunes are located, because tholin is too soft and
brittle to be transported for long distances.

### [Direct Measurement of Interparticle Forces of Titan Aerosol Analogs
  ("Tholin") Using Atomic Force Microscopy](http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.06400v2)

To understand the origin of the dunes on Titan, it is important to
investigate the material properties of Titan's organic sand particles on Titan.
The organic sand may behave distinctively compared to the quartz/basaltic sand
on terrestrial planets (Earth, Venus, Mars) due to differences in interparticle
forces. We measured the surface energy (through contact angle measurements) and
elastic modulus (through Atomic Force Microscopy, AFM) of the Titan aerosol
analog (tholin). We find the surface energy of a tholin thin film is about 70.9
mN/m and its elastic modulus is about 3.0 GPa (similar to hard polymers like
PMMA and polystyrene). For two 20 $\mu$m diameter particles, the theoretical
cohesion force is therefore 3.3 $\mu$N. We directly measured interparticle
forces for relevant materials: tholin particles are 0.8$\pm$0.6 $\mu$N, while
the interparticle cohesion between walnut shell particles (a typical model
materials for the Titan Wind Tunnel, TWT) is only 0.4$\pm$0.1 $\mu$N. The
interparticle cohesion forces are much larger for tholins and presumably Titan
sand particles than materials used in the TWT. This suggests we should increase
the interparticle force in both analog experiments (TWT) and threshold models
to correctly translate the results to real Titan conditions. The strong
cohesion of tholins may also inform us how the small aerosol particles ($\sim$1
$\mu$m) in Titan's atmosphere are transformed into large sand particles
($\sim$200 $\mu$m). It may also support the cohesive sand formation mechanism
suggested by Rubin and Hesp (2009), where only unidirectional wind is needed to
form linear dunes on Titan.

### [The physics of wind-blown sand and dust](http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4353v2)

The transport of sand and dust by wind is a potent erosional force, creates
sand dunes and ripples, and loads the atmosphere with suspended dust aerosols.
This article presents an extensive review of the physics of wind-blown sand and
dust on Earth and Mars. Specifically, we review the physics of aeolian
saltation, the formation and development of sand dunes and ripples, the physics
of dust aerosol emission, the weather phenomena that trigger dust storms, and
the lifting of dust by dust devils and other small-scale vortices. We also
discuss the physics of wind-blown sand and dune formation on Venus and Titan.

### [Dust Devils on Titan](http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05581v1)

Conditions on Saturn's moon Titan suggest dust devils, which are convective,
dust-laden plumes, may be active. Although the exact nature of dust on Titan is
unclear, previous observations confirm an active aeolian cycle, and dust devils
may play an important role in Titan's aeolian cycle, possibly contributing to
regional transport of dust and even production of sand grains. The Dragonfly
mission to Titan will document dust devil and convective vortex activity and
thereby provide a new window into these features, and our analysis shows that
associated winds are likely to be modest and pose no hazard to the mission.
